well saying that a particular race is
the toughest in the world is always
going to cause arguments amongst runners
but what is certain is that the marathon
day saab is among the hardest the full
stage of the event sore competitors
running non-stop for 76 kilometers
through the Sahara Desert in Morocco
Paul Reese reports more than a hundred
kilometers of Desert stretches in front
of these runners adding to the hours and
days of sand already behind them this is
the marathon day sub 230 kilometers in
six days in the searing heat of the
Moroccan desert with more than a
thousand runners carrying their own food
and sleeping bags on their backs
wednesday and thursdays fourth stage is
the toughest and nearly two marathons in
distance before stage for that already
run a hundred and six kilometers in
three days up and down dunes collecting
blisters and injuries along the way now
it was 76 kilometers in a maximum of
thirty four hours with many running
through the night that at least would
provide relief from the Sun daytime
temperature can hit 50 degrees Celsius
that's why organizers stocked up on a
hundred and twenty thousand liters of
water for the six stages they've also
got six and a half kilometres of
sticking plaster well despite the
hardships the event attracts everyone
from total novices to the pros this year
the oldest runner 76 years of age we
should be here the end of the stage
would bring a chance for some rest for
the runners when they finally crawled
into their tents before stage 5 and
another 42 kilometers of sand Paul Reese
al Jazeera well joining us now from the
desert town of mazzuca hope I'm
pronouncing that right in Morocco is one
of those brave runners Joanna meek is a
British athlete working as a physio
we're not running marathons John hope
you can hear as ik just come through
what is effectively a double marathon
and I think just under 10 hours give us
an idea as to just how tough that was
it was a it started off okay except that
we had to start and later on the first
50 50 runners started at midday who just
under so we started off in the searing
heat so the aim was just to keep the
pace you know steady and then hopefully
as the day goes on to pick it up but it
was quite relentless there was no breeze
and there you don't you don't do much
talking or you could think about is the
heat how have you prepared for this race
I know you come from tavistock which is
renowned for being a fairly wet area of
the UK so how do you prepare for a race
like this I've just I'm just a marathon
runner so I've just a normal marathon
training with a few extra long runs
unfortunately we've had really cold
winter so I've been training in minus 2
which doesn't really help for this
however there's a local college where i
live in devon that called marjan the
college of scent markings and john have
been absolutely brilliant and they've
got a heat chamber there so i managed to
get in and run in the heat chamber and
one under one of the professors there so
that helped i think and physically what
sort of shape you in at the moment house
sort of tough as it being any injuries
you've picked up over the last four or
five days now I've been pretty lucky
just blisters you get sand that goes
down your Gators and they rub so you get
blisters from that as well and your skin
bit of sunburn but on the whole touch
wood it's a it's been okay I've been
pretty lucky compared to some of the
people I've seen come in and you are
second in the overall standings for the
women going into Friday's final ranking
race if you got a chance of overhauling
the leader I don't know an hour she's an
hour ahead of me just a bit more I think
that's a pretty ambitious unless
something happens to her but I'm really
happy to be where I am alright well
fantastic stuff to you on it all the
best all the best for the race on Friday
amazing achievements I'm sorry I'm sorry
too but it's david here City sitting
next to Andy I mean you talk about the
blisters you talk about the heat the
burn to sweat everything like that
is it still fun no I'm not really sure
it is to be honest it's more of a
challenge I wouldn't actually say I'm
going out there and enjoying it it's
just the challenge is that it has to be
done but maybe when I get home and look
back and it's then it might be fun well
when you're sitting in Tavistock and I
know what the weather's like they're
those rain clouds haven't seen high
ground since they left Boston and it's
absolutely pouring down into avi Joe and
I think of those wonderful days when you
know you're just taking a little shuffle
a stroll in the Sun out in the Sahara
thank you thanks very much for joining
us Joanna me good luck